As the needle lowers, the hook grabs the
thread. The rotating hook spins around,
the first loop is released, and then the
hook grabs the second loop. The looper
was held by pieces of metal tightly
enough that it didn't fall out, but with
enough of a gap for the thread to pass
through all the way around. That same
shape was used on over 80 models of
sewing machines for 80 years.
The second patent that Wilson received
in 1851 is the basis for how most modern
sewing machines work. The bobbin is
inside a rotating hook. So, let's see
how that works. The needle
comes down pulling that top thread. And
it goes down
really low and then it pops back up a
little bit creating this little bulge
right here. And when the rotating hook
comes around
it is grabbed
by that rotating hook pulling even more
thread so that this thread can pass
entirely around the bobbin. And then
needle pops back up.
We pull in the excess
and we've formed
another lock stitch like so.